QUICKSTART GUIDE
INTRODUCTION
elcome to the Quickstart Guide for the
Dragonbane RPG. This PDF contains a con-
densed version of the core rules, as well as
MEASURING TIME
pre-­ generated player characters and the adventure Ridder-
mound, ready to play.
YOU AND OTHERS
Most of the rules in this game are written in the
second person – i.e., speaking to “you.” Rules
that apply to you also apply to others in the
game, both player characters and NPCs (char-
acters controlled by the Game­ master), unless
expressly stated otherwise.
Three units are used to measure time in Dragon­ bane.
Rounds are used in combat, while the stretch and the
shift are used in other situations.
UNIT
OF TIME DURATION ENOUGH TIME TO
Shift 6 hours Hike for 15 kilometers, take a
shift rest (page 18).
Round 10 seconds Perform an action in combat,
take a round rest (page 18).
Stretch 15 minutes Explore a room, take a
stretch rest (page 18).
THE PLAYERS
All players except one portray adventurers in the world of
Dragonbane. These individuals are called player characters.
You decide what your player character thinks and feels,
what they do and say – but not what happens to them. It is
your job as a player to immerse yourself in your character.
Dragonbane is best suited for three to five characters.
It can be played with more or fewer players than that,
but then you may have to make certain adjustments to
the adventure.
the outcome is uncertain. Then it is time to break out the
dice – read more about that below.
It is the GM’s job to put obstacles in your path and
challenge your player characters, forcing them to show
what they are really made of. But it is not up to the GM
to decide everything that happens in the game – and
certainly not how your story is supposed to end. That is
decided in the game. It is what you are playing to find out.
THE GAMEMASTER
The final player is the Gamemaster, or GM for short. The
GM describes the world of Dragonbane to you, portrays
the people you encounter on your treasure hunts (so-called
non-­ player characters, or NPCs) and controls the
monsters lurking in the depths.
The game is a conversation between the players and the
GM, back and forth, until a critical situation arises where
START PLAYING
Adventure awaits in the world of Dragonbane! All you need
to do before playing the adventure Riddermound, which is
included in this Quickstart, is the following:
1. Decide who will be the GM.
2. Have each player pick one of the pre-generated player
characters.
3. The GM reads through this PDF and becomes familiar
with the rules and the adventure. The players are wel-
come to read the rules as well, but must not read the
adventure itself.
4. Let the game begin!
DICE
OPTIONAL RULES
All you need to play this Quickstart, other than
the PDF and possibly a few pencils, are dice.
Dragonbane uses several different types of dice
– with four, six, eight, ten, twelve, and twenty
sides. These dice will be referred to as D4, D6,
D8, D10, D12, and D20. Such dice are available in
hobby stores, or you can use dice roller apps and
sites found online.
Sidebars like this one, in green, describe
optional rules. They give the game more depth
and complexity, but the game works fine
without them. You might want to start playing
without them and add them as you become
more familiar with the game.
InTRODUCTIOn
3
THE BASIC RULES
YOUR PLAYER
CHARACTER
he player character is your tool, your eyes and ears
in the game world. Take your character seriously
and portray them as if they were a real person. Try
to truly put yourself in the character’s shoes. It will be
more fun that way.
The full core game of Dragonbane describes in detail
how to create your own player character. To keep track of
your player character you use a character sheet. At the end
of this Quickstart you will find five pre-generated player
characters with filled-in character sheets, ready to head out
on adventures!
DERIVED RATINGS
Based on your attributes, you have a number of derived
ratings that are used in various ways.
Movement: This rating determines how many meters you
can run in a round of combat (page 11).
Damage Bonus: Your damage bonus increases the
damage inflicted by your attacks. You have two separate
damage bonuses – one for STR-based weapons and one for
AGL-based weapons.
Hit Points (HP): This rating determines how much
damage you can take. Your maximum number of HP is
equal to your CON.
Willpower Points (WP): Willpower Points are used for
magic, as well as innate and heroic abilities. Your maxi-
mum number of WP is equal to your WIL.
KIN
There are six playable kin in Dragonbane: human, halfling,
dwarf, elf, mallard, and wolfkin. Each kin has an innate
ability that no other kin can learn (mallards have two).
The pre-generated player characters at the end of this PDF
all have their innate abilities described. In most cases,
using such abilities requires Willpower Points (page 5).
PROFESSION
All the player characters are adventurers, but you have
learned a thing or two before the game begins. A range of
professions are described in the full Dragonbane core game.
SKILLS
Skills represent knowledge and abilities you have acquired
during (or prior to) your life as an adventurer. They are
important, as they determine how effectively you can per-
form certain actions in the game. Your skills are measured
by skill level on a scale from 1 to 18. The higher, the better.
ATTRIBUTES
Your adventurer has six base attributes that indicate your
basic physical and mental capabilities, on a scale from
3 to 18. The higher the score, the better.
✦ Strength (STR): Raw muscle power.
✦ Constitution (CON): Physical fitness and resilience.
✦ Agility (AGL): Body control, speed, and fine
motor skills.
✦ Intelligence (INT): Mental acuity, intellect, and rea-
soning skills.
✦ Willpower (WIL): Self-discipline and focus.
✦ Charisma (CHA): Force of personality and empathy.
WEAKNESS
Your character is a capable individual risking
their life and limb for honor, gold, or adventure.
Yet even an adventurer has a weakness, an
Achilles heel that can get you into trouble.
You can roll or choose from the table below or
choose your weakness freely.
Your weakness adds depth and personality
to your character and can also be used by
the GM to create challenges for them. This is
described in the full game rules.
CHAPTER 1 – THE BASIC RULES
5
HEROIC ABILITIES
Heroic abilities are special abilities that give you specific
advantages and benefits in the game. The pre-­ generated
characters at the back of this PDF have one heroic ability
each – except the mage, who instead wields magic.
COINS
Monetary transactions are generally made with
silver coins. Copper coins are used for smaller
transactions and gold for larger ones. Ten copper
coins equal one silver, and ten silver coins equal
one gold. The coins you get when creating your
character can be used to purchase additional
starting gear.
GEAR
You must write down all the items you are carrying on
your character sheet. Any weapons at hand, as well as the
armor, helmet, and shield you are wearing, are listed in
the respective boxes, while other items are recorded under
Inventory.
Write down one item per row. If it is not listed on your
sheet, you do not have it with you.
MEMENTO
In addition to your other equipment, you can
have a memento – an item of great sentimental
value that you always carry with you.
A memento is always a tiny item with no
practical use, but once per gaming session you
can use your memento to recover an additional
condition during a stretch rest (page 18).
ENCUMBRANCE
You can carry a number of items equal to half your STR
(rounded up) in your Inventory without difficulty. Only
the items written down in your Inventory box count
towards your encumbrance.
Weapons at Hand: You can have up to three weapons
at hand, which means that they are worn on your belt or
otherwise readily available for use in combat. Weapons
kept at hand are recorded under Weapons on the character
sheet and do not count toward your encumbrance. Shields
count as weapons and are also recorded here.
Helmet & Armor: Any helmet or armor worn on your
body is recorded in its respective section and does not
count toward your encumbrance.
Food: Up to four rations of food count as one item in
terms of encumbrance. Always record the number of
rations you have left in your Inventory.
Torches & Lanterns: A torch, lamp, or lantern is an item.
Their fire may go out (page 18). Lamps and lanterns can
be refilled with lamp oil.
Arrows & Slingstones: You do not have to count every
arrow you are carrying. Instead, each quiver of arrows
counts as a single item. As long as you have the quiver, you
can use your weapon. Slingstones do not need to be noted
down at all – you are assumed to have enough of those.
Heavy Items
Really heavy items count as two, three, or even more
normal items in terms of encumbrance. These will be
indicated as having weight 2, 3, 4, and so on. In your
inventory, heavy items take up a number of rows equal to
their weight. If no weight is specified, it is always 1.
Tiny Items
Small and light items that can be hidden in a closed fist
are called tiny. Items of this size do not affect your encum-
brance at all. Tiny items are recorded in their own section
on the character sheet and do not take up any space in
your Inventory.
Coins: Single coins count as tiny items and do not affect
your encumbrance as long as they are fewer than 100. 100–
199 coins count as one item, 200–299 as two, and so on.
Over-Encumbered
You can temporarily carry more than your normal encum-
brance limit. In that case you must make a STR roll when-
ever you want to move in a round of combat or walk for a
shift of travel. If the roll fails, you must either drop what
you are carrying or stay where you are.
Carrying Others: While carrying another person, you
automatically count as over-encumbered and cannot fight
in combat.
CHAPTER 1 – THE BASIC RULES
6
ROLL THE DICE
There are thirty core skills in total in the game, not count-
ing secondary skills like the schools of magic. The skills are
described in detail in the full game, so this Quickstart just
briefly explains how to use them.
When using a skill, first describe what your player
character is trying to achieve. Then roll a D20. A result
that is lower than or equal to your skill level means that
your action succeeds. In combat your skill rolls often have
specific effects. Outside of combat the GM, or the adven-
ture you are playing, determines the effects of the roll.
FAILURE
Rolling above your skill level means that your action fails.
For some reason you do not achieve your goal – feel free to
describe what happens together with the GM. The GM can
also let failures have additional consequences to advance
the story in an exciting way.
ROLLING A DRAGON
Rolling a one (1) on D20 means that you are particularly
successful. This is called rolling a dragon. In combat, a
dragon roll has specific effects – increasing the damage of
an attack, for example. Outside of combat the GM decides
the effect. Some suggestions:
✦ You impress everyone around you.
✦ You achieve more than intended.
✦ The action is performed faster than usual.
ROLLING A DEMON
Rolling a 20 on D20 is called rolling a demon and means
that the roll fails regardless of your skill level and other
circumstances. Rolling a demon also means that the roll
cannot be pushed (optional rule, page 9). Demon rolls
can have additional effects in combat. Outside of combat
the GM can let demon rolls have effects such as:
✦ You damage yourself, someone else, or an item.
✦ You make a fool of yourself in front of
­ everyone around you.
✦ You make a lot of noise.
ATTRIBUTE ROLLS
When no skill seems relevant to the situation,
the GM can instruct you to roll against a base
attribute instead – a Strength roll to lift some-
thing heavy, for example. But if there is a skill
that covers the action you wish to perform, your
roll must be based on that. In unclear cases the
GM decides what is appropriate.
ONLY ONE CHANCE
As a rule, you only have one chance to succeed
with any action. Once you have rolled the dice,
you may not roll again to achieve the same goal.
You need to try something different, wait until
the circumstances have changed in a substantial
way, or let another player character try. This
rule does not apply in combat.
CHAPTER 1 – THE BASIC RULES
7
HELP FROM OTHERS
BOONS & BANES
Normally, the GM does not assess how difficult an action
is. You only roll dice in challenging situations – period.
But sometimes the GM might want to underscore that
external factors either help or hinder an action. You might
then get a boon or bane to your roll.
In both cases you roll two D20, but only one result
counts. If you have a boon, only the best result applies.
If you have a bane, only the worst result applies.
Multiple Boons/Banes: If you get multiple boons/banes
to your roll, roll an additional D20 for each boon/bane
and count only the lowest/highest result. However, please
note that unless you have a very high skill level, rolls with
multiple banes have a very low chance of success..
Boon and Bane: Sometimes you might get both boons
and banes to your roll. Each boon negates one bane, and
vice versa. If you have one boon and one bane, make a
Other player characters or NPCs can help you
succeed at a die roll. This must be declared
before you roll any dice. It must also make sense
in the story – the individual helping you must
be physically present and have the capacity to
support your action. The GM has the final say.
Whenever someone helps you with a roll,
you get a boon (see above). In combat, helping
counts as an action – by helping someone else
you lose your own action that round. NPCs
can help each other just as player ­ characters
can. Only one character can help a roll.
normal roll (one D20). If you have two boons and one
bane, it counts as a boon.
CHAPTER 1 – THE BASIC RULES
8
PUSHING YOUR ROLL
If you fail a skill or attribute roll, you can choose
to push the roll , which means that you make
another attempt. The new result applies, what-
ever it is. If you have boons or banes, you must
re-roll all dice. You can never push a demon roll
(a natural 20).
Whenever you push a roll, immediately after
the re-roll, you suffer a condition. This means
that you get a bane on all rolls for skills based
on a certain attribute, and rolls against the
attribute in question. Each attribute is linked to
a certain condition. Thus, there are six different
conditions:
✦ Exhausted – STR
✦ Sickly – CON
✦ Dazed – AGL
✦ Angry – INT
✦ Scared – WIL
✦ Disheartened – CHA
You decide which condition you get from pushing a
roll, with two important restrictions:
✦ You cannot choose a condition you already have.
✦ You must be able to explain how the condition
results from the action you are trying to
perform. The GM has the right to reject clearly
unreasonable explanations.
Once you have all six conditions, you may no longer
push your rolls. In addition to their effects, con-
ditions provide inspiration for roleplaying. Mark
conditions on your character sheet.
Healing Conditions: You can recover from a con-
dition by resting – for more on resting and healing,
see page 18.
NPCs and Monsters: Only the player characters
can push their rolls, not NPCs or monsters.
OPPOSED ROLLS
Sometimes you must beat your enemy in an opposed
roll to succeed with an action. This means that both you
and your adversary roll dice. Opposed rolls are used
sparingly in the game, and only when someone is actively
opposing you. In combat it only counts as an action for
the active party.
✦ If your roll fails, your action fails as well, regardless of
your opponent’s roll.
✦ If your roll succeeds while your opponent fails, your
action succeeds.
✦ If both of you succeed with your rolls, your action
succeeds if the result of your roll is lower than or equal
to your opponent’s result. If the opponent’s result is
lower than yours, you fail.
Pushed Rolls: Opposed rolls can be pushed (optional rule,
see above) as well, but only if you are the active party. This
can be done even after your opponent’s roll.
CHAPTER 1 – THE BASIC RULES
9
COMBAT & DAMAGE
ife as an adventurer is hard and often violent. In
Dragonbane you can run into wild beasts, malicious
raiders, and demonic monsters. Combat can be
rough for your player character, sometimes even lethal.
Before you enter combat, you should always ask yourself:
is it worth it?
ROUNDS & INITIATIVE
Combat is played in rounds, each representing roughly
ten seconds. At the start of each round, the first step is to
decide who has the initiative – that is, in what order the
combatants will act during the round.
SURPRISE
If you perform an attack that the GM deems surprising to
your enemy, you get to choose any initiative card you want
in the first round of combat. If several characters partici-
pate in the surprise attack, you may all choose a card. The
other combatants draw the initiative from the cards that
remain. At the start of the second round, everyone draws
the initiative as usual.
DRAWING THE INITIATIVE
To determine initiative, ten playing cards are used, num-
bered 1 through 10. The core boxed set includes custom
cards for this purpose but normal playing cards work fine
– just count the Ace as 1. Each player taking part in the
conflict, voluntarily or otherwise, draws a random card at
the beginning of each round, and the GM draws cards for
NPCs. This is called drawing the initiative.
The number on the card determines the order in which
you act in the round. Number 1 acts first, number 2 acts
second, and so forth until everyone has acted. Your place
in the initiative order is called your turn.
Place your initiative card by your character sheet so
everyone can see the order in which each person acts. The
GM puts their card (or cards) in front of them. When all
participants have had their turn, the round is over and a
new round begins by drawing the initiative again.
WAITING
INITIATIVE FOR NPCS
To make things simple, particularly in large
battles, the GM can draw a single initiative card
for a group of NPCs. All NPCs in that group act
on the same turn in the round. The order among
them is decided by the GM
On your turn in the round, you can choose to
wait. This means that you swap initiative cards
– and therefore places in the initiative order –
with another creature whose turn comes after
yours. You can swap cards with other player
characters as well as NPCs (or group of NPCs
acting on the same turn), and they cannot
refuse the trade. However, you cannot swap
initiative cards with anyone who has already
had their turn, or who themselves chose to
wait earlier in the round.
Monsters: Monsters (page 20) often have
multiple turns in a single round, and therefore
draw multiple initiative cards. In that case
you decide which card you want, as long as it
comes after your current turn in the initiative
order. Monsters themselves never choose
to wait.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
11
ACTIONS & MOVEMENT
On your turn in the round, you can move and perform
one action. You simply explain how you want to move and
what action you want to perform. If necessary, you also
roll dice to see whether you succeed.
You decide whether to move before you act or vice
versa. You can even use part of your movement, perform
your action, and then finish the movement.
REACTIONS
Some actions are not performed on your turn, but on the
opponent’s. These are called reactions and include things
like parrying or dodging attacks. This uses up your own
turn in the round, which means that you cannot perform a
reaction if you have already had your turn and performed
an action. Flip your initiative card after performing a
reaction.
ACTIONS
An action in combat can be many different things, but
the list below summarizes the most common ones. These
actions are described in detail later in this chapter.
Free Actions: Minor actions such as drawing a weapon
kept at hand, dropping to the ground, or shouting a few
words are all free actions. See the sidebar to the right for a
complete list. Free actions do not count as your action in
the round but you can only perform one of each type per
round, and only on your own turn. For example, you can
drop down or get up on your turn, but not both.
FREE ACTIONS
✦ Draw Weapon: Draw, exchange, or put away
a weapon kept at hand.
✦ Change Position: Throw yourself to the
ground or get up.
✦ Drop Item: Drop an item on the ground.
✦ Shout: Say or shout a few words.
ACTIONS
An action in combat can be many different things,
but the most common ones are summarized below.
Rules for these actions can be found later.
✦ Dash: This action doubles your movement rate in
the round.
✦ Melee Attack: These can be performed against
an enemy within 2 meters (4 meters for long
weapons).
✦ Ranged Attack: Attacks with a ranged weapon
can be performed against enemies within the
weapon’s Range.
✦ Parry: Both melee and ranged attacks can be
parried, but the latter requires a shield. Parrying
is a reaction that takes place outside your turn
and replaces your regular action in the round.
✦ Dodge: Dodging melee or ranged attacks is also
a reaction.
✦ Pick Up Item: Pick up an item from the ground
within 2 meters, or from your Inventory.
✦ Equip/Unequip Armor/Helmet: Suits of armor
and helmets protect you from damage, but also
restrict your movement.
✦ First Aid: The HEALING skill is used to save the
life of someone who has had their HP reduced to
zero and is at risk of dying.
✦ Rally: You can PERSUADE another player charac-
ter at zero HP to rally and keep fighting.
✦ Break Down Door: Doors can take a certain
amount of damage before they break down.
✦ Pick Lock: Picking a lock requires a SLEIGHT
OF HAND roll. Doing so without lockpicks gives
you a bane.
✦ Use Item: Use a potion or some other item
within 2 meters of you.
✦ Activate Ability: Use an innate or heroic ­ ability.
✦ Cast Spell: In most cases, casting a spell counts
as an action. This includes magic tricks. Some
spells are reactions and do not require an action,
while others are more time-consuming. For more
on magic, see chapter 4.
✦ Helping: Helping another character gives them a
boon to a roll in the same round.
✦ Round Rest: You rest and recover D6 WP. This
can only be done once per shift.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
12
Movement: When performing a reaction, you also lose
your movement in the round. Several reactions, such as
dodging or parrying, give you a certain movement as part
of the action. You can read more about this under Melee
Combat on page 14.
The roll does not count as an action, but if it fails, the
enemy immediately gets to perform an additional melee
attack against you – a free attack. The free attack does not
count as an action and can neither be parried nor dodged.
Note that a free attack is triggered even if you start your
movement at a distance but pass by an enemy. Moving
around an enemy does not trigger a free attack, as long as
you stay within 2 meters.
MOVEMENT
Under normal circumstances, you can move as many
meters as your Movement rate. But there are a few special
cases to consider:
Dash: By choosing to dash as your action in the round,
you can move twice as far as normal.
Stand/Crouch: You can drop to the ground or get up as
part of your movement. These are free actions and do not
affect your movement per se, but can only be done on
your turn.
Leaping: As part of your movement, you can make a
horizontal leap as long as half your movement rate with a
successful ACROBATICS roll. If the distance is a quarter of
your movement rate or less, you don’t need to roll to leap it.
Door: Passing through a closed but unlocked door costs
half your movement in the round. If you cannot move
any further, you remain standing by the now open door. A
locked door must either be picked open or broken down.
Enemies: You cannot move past a standing enemy who
wants to stop you. A humanoid creature of human size can
block an area of roughly 2×2 meters. Monsters can block
larger areas. To move past an enemy who is blocking the
way, you must first bring it to the ground or reduce its HP
to zero. Friendly individuals can be passed without any
problem.
Free Attack: If you are standing within 2 meters of an
enemy and then move away from that enemy, you must
make an EVADE roll.
SNEAK ATTACK
The key to winning a conflict is often to attack when the
enemy least expects it.
Sneak Attack: When you sneak up on someone unde-
tected and perform an attack, it is called a sneak attack.
First you make a SNEAKING roll. Moving close enough to
attack in melee combat (within 2 meters) gives you a bane.
If you fail, the enemy notices you – draw initiative.
If you succeed your attack counts as surprising, which
means that you can choose any initiative card you want.
You also get a boon on the attack, and the target can nei-
ther dodge nor parry. Using a Subtle weapon increases the
damage by one die (for example 2D8 instead of D8). Sneak
attacks are always performed individually, by one attacker
against one target.
Ambush: A special kind of sneak attack is an ambush –
lying in wait for an enemy and attacking as it passes by. In
this case, each victim makes an AWARENESS roll to spot
the ambush, with a bane if the attackers are well prepared.
All those who fail get the bottom cards (counting from #10
and up), randomly drawn.
COMBAT MAPS
FLIP THE INITIATIVE CARD
Once you have had your turn in the round, you
can flip the initiative card face down to make
it clear to you and everyone else that you have
acted. This means that you cannot perform any
reaction (such as parrying an attack) later in
the round.
Grid maps are a useful tool in combat, as they
can be used to keep track of where everyone is.
Such a map is included in the adventure Ridder-
mound at the end of this Quickstart. Each square
on the map represents an area of 2×2 meters.
The map also contains doors, walls, and other
details.
As a rule, each square on the map can only be
occupied by one person at a time, but it is possible
to pass through a square where a friendly com-
batant is positioned. Diagonal movements and
attacks are allowed, but not if both squares you
want to pass between are blocked or occupied by
hostile opponents.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
13
MELEE COMBAT
To attack someone in melee, you generally must be within
2 meters of your target. On the grid map you need to be
positioned in a square adjacent to the enemy (including
diagonally). When attacking in close combat, you use the
skill that covers the type of weapon you are wielding.
Damage: If the attack hits, your weapon determines
which dice you should roll to see how much damage you
inflict on the enemy. The damage can be increased by your
damage bonus and a dragon roll and decreased by armor.
Damage Bonus: Your damage bonus is determined by
your score in the attribute on which your weapon skill is
based – AGL or STR.
Weapon: You can have up to three weapons at hand.
Write them down in the Weapons section on your charac-
ter sheet. To attack with a weapon, it must also be drawn.
Drawing a weapon kept at hand, or exchanging your
drawn weapon for another weapon at hand, is a free action.
Picking up another weapon from the ground or from your
inventory costs a regular action.
STR Requirement: Some weapons have a STR require-
ment. If your STR is lower than the requirement, you get
a bane on all attacks and parries with that weapon. If your
Strength is less than half the requirement, you cannot use
the weapon at all.
Grip: Weapons require either one or two hands to use.
You can only have one two-handed weapon, or two one-
handed weapons (including a shield), drawn at the same
time. The STR requirement of a one-handed weapon
decreases by 3 if you hold it with both hands.
Long Weapons: An attack with a weapon with the Long
feature (such as a long spear or lance) can hit enemies up
to 4 meters away (two squares). With such a weapon it is
also possible to attack past a friendly combatant and hit an
enemy on the other side of that person.
PRONE TARGETS
If you are standing up but your enemy is lying on the ground,
your attack gets a boon and inflicts an extra D6 damage.
SHOVE
DAMAGE TYPES
If you hit an enemy with a melee attack and
your STR damage bonus is equal to or higher
than your opponent’s damage bonus, you can
choose to shove the enemy up to 2 meters in
any direction (to an adjacent square, if you are
using a grid map) in addition to doing damage.
This movement does not count toward the
enemy’s total movement in the round and does
not trigger free attacks from anyone. Monsters
cannot shove or be shoved.
There are three types of damage: slashing,
piercing, and bludgeoning. The damage types
for the pre-generated characters’ weapons are
listed on their character sheets. Some weap-
ons, such as swords, can inflict both slashing
damage and piercing damage – you must state
whether you stab or slash before rolling the
die. The damage type influences the effective-
ness of armor, and monsters can be resistant
to certain types of damage.
CRITICAL HIT
By rolling a dragon when you attack, you score a critical
hit. This means that a dragon roll is required to parry or
dodge the attack, and that you may choose one of the
following effects:
✦ Roll double the amount of dice for the weapon’s
damage, before adding any damage bonus and other
bonuses. For example, if you get a critical hit with a
broadsword (damage 2D6) and have damage bonus D4,
the damage is 4D6+D4.
✦ You can immediately perform a second attack against
another enemy. This additional attack is a free action.
✦ Armor has no effect against the attack, as it finds a
gap or weak spot. This effect can only be chosen if the
attack deals piercing damage (optional rule, below).
However, if the damage exceeds your weapon’s durability,
the weapon is damaged and cannot be used until it is
repaired with a CRAFTING roll.
Shield: If you have a shield drawn, you can parry with
it instead of your weapon. There is no skill for shields –
instead you can use any STR-based melee skill (i.e. any of
them except KNIVES and STAVES) to parry with a shield.
Piercing Damage: Piercing attacks can never damage a
parrying weapon or shield.
Monsters: As a rule, monster attacks (page 21) cannot
be parried, unless otherwise specified.
PARRYING
When hit by an attack in close combat, you can choose to
parry the attack with a drawn weapon or shield. Note that
you cannot draw a weapon to parry, as free actions can
only be performed on your own turn. You must declare
that you are going to parry before the attacker rolls for
damage. You cannot parry unarmed. It is also impossible
to both parry and dodge the same attack. You can parry
while prone. When parrying, you roll against your skill
level for the weapon.
Reaction: Parrying is a reaction, as it breaks the initiative
order. It replaces your regular action, and you must imme-
diately flip your initiative card. This means that you cannot
parry if you have already performed your action in the round.
Durability: If your parry succeeds, the enemy’s attack
hits your weapon or shield, and you suffer no damage.
DODGING
As an alternative to parrying, you can try to dodge when
hit by an attack. You cannot parry and dodge the same
attack – you must choose one or the other. You can dodge
while prone. You must declare that you are dodging before
your opponent rolls for damage. Roll for EVADE – on
success you evade the attack and take no damage. On a
failure, you are hit by the attack.
Reaction: Dodging is a reaction and, like parrying,
requires that you have not already performed your action
in the round. Once you have dodged, your action in the
round is spent and you must flip your initiative card.
Movement: On a successful dodge you may, if you want,
move up to 2 meters in any direction. This movement does
not trigger free attacks from anyone.
Monsters: As a rule, monster attacks (page 21) can be
dodged, unless otherwise specified.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
15
RANGED COMBAT
To use a ranged weapon, it must first be drawn (free
action), just like in melee. You should preferably be
positioned over 2 meters from your target (i.e. not in an
adjacent square on the map). Standing 2 meters away or
less gives you a bane on your attack. Roll against the skill
for the weapon you are using. For throwing weapons, use
the same skill as for melee attacks (such as KNIVES or
SPEARS). If the attack hits, the weapon determines which
dice you should roll to see how much damage it inflicts.
The damage can be increased by damage bonus and a
dragon roll, and decreased by armor.
Damage Bonus: You get a damage bonus for ranged
weapons, just as in melee.
Range: The maximum distance (in meters) at which the
weapon can be used effectively. You can fire at targets up to
twice the listed range, but then you get a bane.
✦ Your weapon’s damage is doubled, excluding the
damage bonus and other bonuses. Roll twice as many
dice as normal and add them up. For example, a criti-
cal hit with a longbow inflicts 2D12 damage.
✦ Armor and natural armor have no effect against the
attack, as it hits a gap or weak spot. This effect can
only be chosen if the attack deals piercing damage
(optional rule).
PARRY & DODGE
Parrying a ranged attack requires a shield. It works the
same way as in melee combat, except that rolling a dragon
does not give you a counterattack. You can dodge ranged
attacks just like melee attacks.
CRITICAL HIT
Rolling a dragon when performing a ranged attack results
in a critical hit, which means that it can only be dodged if
the opponent also rolls a dragon. You may also choose one
of the following effects:
OBSCURED TARGETS
If your view of the target is partially obscured by an object
or person, no matter if it is a friend or foe, you get a bane
on your attack. On a grid map you can shoot past a person
standing between you and your target, but with a bane. If
the target is completely out of sight, perhaps hiding behind
a wall, you cannot shoot it at all. If you are playing without
a map, the GM decides whether your line of sight is par-
tially or completely blocked.
DAMAGE
Life as an adventurer is hard and risky. The rewards may
be great, but the only thing you know for sure is that
you will suffer all sorts of damage along the way. Taking
damage reduces your hit points (HP).
DAMAGE TYPES & ARMOR
ARMOR
Wearing leather, chainmail, or plate armor can protect
your body from damage. Equipping or unequipping armor
counts as an action in combat. The armor you are wearing
should be written down in the Armor section on your
character sheet and does not count toward your encum-
brance. You can only wear one suit of armor at a time.
Some armors can give you a bane on certain skill rolls or
restrict your movement.
If the optional rule for damage types (page
15) is used, the following rules apply:
✦ Leather and studded leather gain a
+2 bonus to their armor rating against blud-
geoning damage.
✦ Chainmail gets a +2 bonus to its armor
rating against slashing damage.
If the type of damage is not stated, the armor
has its normal effect.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
16
Armor Rating: An armor’s effectiveness is determined by
its armor rating. Whenever you take damage from a phys-
ical attack, subtract the armor rating from the damage. If
the damage from a melee attack is completely negated, the
attacking weapon itself suffers the damage instead, which
might break the weapon (see durability on page 15).
Helmets: Your armor can be combined with a helmet,
which can further increase your armor rating. Equipping
or unequipping a helmet counts as an action. Helmets can
also give you a bane when using certain skills.
DEATH
If your HP reaches zero, you drop to the ground and risk
dying. You cannot move or perform any actions except
trying to rally (below).
Death Roll: On your turn in each subsequent round, you
must make a death roll – a roll against you CON. The death
roll cannot be pushed if that optional rule is used. Record
the results of your death rolls on your character sheet.
ZERO HP FOR NPCS
When an NPC reaches zero HP, no death rolls are
made – the GM decides whether the person lives
or dies. However, an NPC dies if hit by an instantly
killing attack, just like a player character.
After three successful death rolls you recover D6 HP. After
three failed death rolls, your player character dies. Rolling
a dragon counts as two successful death rolls, and rolling
a demon counts as two failures. If the combat ends, keep
counting rounds until all death rolls have been made.
Additional Damage: If you suffer additional damage while
at zero HP, it automatically counts as a failed death roll.
Rally: Another player character within 10 meters and ear-
shot can PERSUADE you to rally and keep fighting despite
having zero HP. This counts as an action. If you rally, you
can continue acting as normal, but must keep making
death rolls as described above. You can even try to rally
yourself, rolling against your WIL with a bane (instead of
PERSUASION).
Saving Life: When you have zero HP, another person can
save your life with a successful HEALING roll. Without
bandages, they get a bane to the roll. This counts as an
action. Multiple attempts are allowed. If the roll succeeds,
you stop making death rolls and recover D6 HP. You
cannot save your own life this way, even if you have rallied
(see above). Additional HEALING rolls have no effect once
you are no longer at zero HP, except when resting (see
page 18). Magic can save lives as well.
Instant Death: You don’t record negative HP, but if a
single attack reduces your HP to a negative score equal
to your full HP, your player character dies instantly.
Time to honor the fallen adventurer and create
a new one!
CONDITIONS
In this game you can suffer six different conditions. Each
condition gives you a bane on all rolls against a certain
attribute and skill rolls based on that attribute:
✦ Exhausted – STR
✦ Sickly – CON
✦ Dazed – AGL
✦ Angry – INT
✦ Scared – WIL
✦ Disheartened – CHA
Suffering a Condition: The most common way to
suffer conditions is to push your roll (optional rule,
page 9). You must then choose a condition and
describe how you get it. You can suffer conditions in
other ways as well, for example because of monster
attacks or spells.
Multiple Conditions: If you suffer a condition that you
already have, you must choose another condition. If you
have all six conditions, you instead lose D6 WP if you
suffer another condition. If you are out of WP, you instead
lose D6 HP.
Healing Conditions: You can heal one condition of
your choice during a stretch rest. A shift rest heals all
conditions.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
17
HEALING & RESTING
Lost HP and WP are recovered by resting. There are three
kinds of rest – round rest, stretch rest, and shift rest. While
resting, you cannot perform any actions that require die
rolls or WP.
Round Rest: A quick rest that lasts just a single round.
During a round rest you recover only D6 WP, no HP. You
can only have a round rest once per shift.
Stretch Rest: A short rest that only lasts for one stretch
of time. During a stretch rest you heal D6 HP, or 2D6
HP if someone else is tending to you and succeeds with a
HEALING roll. The caregiver cannot rest during the same
stretch and can only heal one person during the rest.
During a stretch rest, you also recover D6 Willpower
Points and heal a condition of your choice. If something
dramatic interrupts your rest, the effects are lost. You can only
have a stretch rest once per shift.
Shift Rest: A shift rest lasts one full shift of time and
can only take place in a safe location where there are no
enemies nearby. During a shift rest you recover all your
lost HP and WP and heal all conditions. If a shift rest is
interrupted by combat or hard work it has no effect.
Magic: Spells can allow you to heal HP more quickly
than usual.
OTHER HAZARDS
When struck by a fear attack you must immediately
make a roll against WIL. The roll can be pushed (optional
rule) and does not count as an action. Particularly fright-
ening events can give you a bane on the roll. If the WIL
roll fails, you must roll on the fear table on the next page.
DARKNESS
In complete darkness you cannot dash (page 13) or hit
enemies with ranged attacks. To attack an enemy in melee
combat, you must first make an AWARENESS roll (not an
action).
Torches: A torch lights up 10 meters (five squares) in
all directions. Lighting a torch is an action and requires
flint and tinder or a fire to light it with, or the magic trick
IGNITE (page 25). If none of these are available, you
can light it with a successful BUSHCRAFT roll, but that
takes one stretch of work.
A torch is carried in one hand, which means that you
cannot use two-handed weapons or a second one-handed
weapon at the same time. A torch can be used as a weapon,
and counts as a small wooden club that deals fire damage.
Whenever you hit someone with it, you must immediately
roll to see whether the flame goes out (below).
A torch can burn for up to a shift of time, but they are
unreliable. After each stretch, or whenever the GM wants
to heighten the drama, you must roll a D6. A result of 1
means that the flame goes out.
POISON
Poisons are measured by potency. A weak poison has
potency 9, a moderate poison has potency 12, and a strong
poison can have potency 15 or even more. Whenever you
ingest a poison, the GM makes an opposed roll (page 9)
between the potency and your CON. If the poison wins, you
suffer its full effect. If you win, you only suffer the limited
effect of the poison. Poison has no effect on monsters.
FEAR
There are many horrifying beasts lurking in the ruins
and forests of Dragonbane. Such creatures can perform
so-called fear attacks. Fear attacks can also be triggered by
magic and other terrifying experiences.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
18
NPCs: For poison effects on NPCs, roll against their maximum
HP.
Lethal Poison
✦ Full Effect: You take D6 damage per round, on your
turn, until you reach zero HP. If you consume an anti-
dote in time the effect is halted.
✦ Limited Effect: You take D6 damage on your
next turn.
Paralyzing Poison
✦ Full Effect: You become Exhausted and must make
a CON roll each turn (not an action). If it fails, you
can neither move nor perform actions (not even free
actions) that round. The effect wears off after one
stretch or if you are given an antidote.
✦ Limited Effect: You become Exhausted.
Sleeping Poison
✦ Full Effect: You become Dazed and must make a
CON roll each turn (not an action). If it fails, you fall
asleep and remain sleeping for one shift. Being given
an antidote or taking at least one point of damage
wakes you up.
✦ Limited Effect: You become Dazed.
FEAR TABLE
D8 EFFECT
1 Enfeebled. The fear drains your energy and
determination. You lose 2D6 WP (to a minimum
of zero) and become Disheartened.
2 Shaken. You suffer the Scared condition.
3 Panting. The intense fear leaves you out of
breath and makes you Exhausted.
4 Pale. Your face turns white as a sheet. You and all
player characters within 10 meters and in sight of
you become Scared.
5 Scream. You scream in horror, which causes all
player characters who hear the sound to imme-
diately suffer a fear attack as well. Each person
only ever needs to make one WIL roll to resist the
same fear attack.
6 Rage. Your fear turns to anger, and you are
forced to attack its source on your next turn – in
melee combat if possible. You also become Angry.
7 Paralyzed. You are petrified with terror and
unable to move. You cannot perform any action or
movement on your next turn. Make another WIL
roll on each subsequent turn (not an action) to
break the paralysis.
COLD
When the cold is bitter and you do not have enough shelter
(according to the GM), you must roll BUSH­ CRAFT reg-
ularly. You usually roll once per shift, but in extreme cold
you may have to roll every stretch or even every round. If
you don’t have a blanket, you get a bane to the roll, while a
fur gives you a boon.
On failure you lose D6 HP and D6 WP, and can no
longer heal these or conditions except through magic. You
must then keep making rolls to withstand the cold, with
the same effect if you fail. If you reach zero HP while cold,
you die when it is time for the next roll. Only when you get
warm, if only by a campfire, can you stop making rolls and
heal normally again.
8 Wild Panic. In a fit of utter panic, you flee the
scene as fast as you can. On your next turn you
must dash away from the source of your fear.
Make another WIL roll on each subsequent
turn (not an action) to stop running and act
normally again.
FALLING
Falling on a hard surface inflicts a number of D6s of
bludgeoning damage equal to half of the height of the fall
in meters, rounded down. A fall of less than two meters
inflicts no damage. A successful ACROBATICS roll
reduces the number of D6 by half (rounded up). Armor
does not protect against falling damage.
SWIMMING & DROWNING
All player characters are decent swimmers. In water your
movement rate is half your movement rate on land. No
ranged attacks can be performed in water, and melee
attacks are performed with a bane. More difficult under-
water maneuvers, like diving for something, require a
SWIMMING roll. You get a bane if you are wearing chain-
mail or plate armor.
In water you must also make a SWIMMING roll after
every stretch of time to stay afloat. If you are wearing chain-
mail or plate armor, you must roll every round. Underwater,
you need to make a successful roll against CON each round
to hold your breath (not an action). If the roll fails you begin
to drown, taking D6 damage per round until someone res-
cues you. If you reach zero HP while drowning, you make
death rolls as usual, but only failed rolls count.
CHAPTER 2 – COMBAT & DAMAGE
19
MONSTERS
monster is a creature of unnatural origin, a terri-
ble beast that strikes terror in all and defies the
­ natural order. A large number of monsters are
described in the full core game, and you will find a few in
the Riddermound adventure in this Quickstart.
Monsters are controlled by the GM and act largely in
the same way as player characters and NPCs in combat.
But there are some significant differences, which are
described below.
Dodging & Parrying: As a rule, a monster attack can be
dodged (page 15) but not parried. This applies to attacks
with an area of effect as well, but not fear attacks. Exceptions
to this rule are stated in the monster attack description.
Conditions: Monster attacks can inflict conditions (page
17) on player characters. If a character gains a condition
they already have, the player must choose another condi-
tion instead.
Repeated Attacks: A monster never makes the same
attack twice in a row. If the GM rolls the same monster
attack two consecutive times, the second roll changes into
the next attack on the table. The 6 result becomes a 1.
FEROCITY
Some monsters are so powerful that they can act multiple
times in the same round. This is indicated by their Ferocity
score. At the start of each round, the GM draws one
initiative card for each point of Ferocity. The monster gets
one turn per card, with one action and one movement on
each turn.
Waiting: If a player character swaps initiative cards with
a monster (optional rule, page 11), the player ­ character
can choose any one of the monster’s cards. Monsters them-
selves never wait.
SKILLS
Monsters can have skills, but they are mainly used outside
of combat or for opposed rolls – not for attacks. They only
attack using their monster attacks.
MOVEMENT
Just like player characters, monsters have a Movement
score and can move before or after their attack or divide
their movement before and after the attack. Note that this
score refers to movement per turn for monsters, not per
round. Some monsters have different movement rates on
land, in water, and in the air. Taking flight or landing are
free actions.
FIGHTING MONSTERS
Dodging & Parrying: All monsters can dodge, and mon-
sters carrying weapons can also parry. Each dodge or parry
uses up one of the monster’s actions in the round (flip an
initiative card of your choice). Roll against a default skill
level of 15 for all dodges and parries by monsters.
Natural Armor: Many monsters have some form of natu-
ral armor. This works just like ordinary armor (page 16).
Darkness: Unless otherwise stated, monsters can see in
darkness and don’t suffer the effects on page 18.
MONSTER ATTACKS
A monster always uses a monster attack when it attacks.
Each monster has a unique set of monster attacks, which
are summarized in a table. The GM rolls or chooses
an attack from this table when it is the monster’s turn
to attack. Monsters never roll dice to hit their target –
­ monster attacks succeed automatically.
Performing a monster attack counts as an action.
Unless otherwise specified, monster attacks have the same
range as melee attacks, i.e. 2 meters (an adjacent square if
you are using grid maps).
RESISTANCE & IMMUNITY
Some monsters are resistant to certain damage types. This
means that all damage of this type is halved (rounded up).
Some monsters can even be immune to certain types of
damage, and therefore take no damage at all from such
attacks.
FEAR & PERSUASION
Monsters are too terrifying to get scared themselves (page
18), but many of them can certainly instill terror in the
player characters. Monsters are also immune to the PER-
SUASION skill unless otherwise stated.
CHAPTER 3 – MonSTERS
21
MAGIC
ome call magic a gift from the dragons, others a
curse from the demons, and still others call it the
blessing of the gods or spirits. And it is true that
dragons, demons, gods, and spirits influence magic and can
guide the mage who wields it, but the reality is that magic
is a basic force of nature that exists throughout the physical
world as well as beyond it. Magic is described in detail in the
full Dragonbane game. This Quickstart only offers a brief
summary of how magic is used.
SCHOOLS OF MAGIC
There are different schools of magic, each with a different
view on what magic is and how it works. Three schools are
described in the core game: Animism, Elementalism, and
Mentalism. Each school is a separate skill.
USING MAGIC
A spell is a formula for how a sorcerer can influence and
alter the world through magical means. Many spells are
included in the Dragonbane core game. A selection of
them is described along with the pre-generated player
characters at the end of this PDF. You either know a spell
or you do not. You don’t have a skill level in individual
spells, only in the school. You hold your spells in your
memory or spellbook.
Magic Tricks
So-called magic tricks are minor, relatively harmless
spells. They are often the first thing a mage learns, as it
trains their mind to handle spells and magical power.
Performing a trick costs 1 WP and succeeds automatically,
but still counts as an action in combat.
CASTING SPELLS
To cast a spell you must spend Willpower Points (WP)
and roll against your skill level in the relevant school.
Any school can be used to cast general spells. If the roll
succeeds, the spell has the intended effect, as per its
description. Otherwise, it has no effect. You can push the
roll if this optional rule is used. Magic tricks succeed auto-
matically and always cost 1 WP.
Power Level
The power level of a spell indicates how much power you
charge it with. The power level ranges from 1 to 3. Casting
a spell costs 2 WP per power level. In other words, normal
spells always cost at least 2 WP, and magic tricks always
cost 1 WP. Some spells do not use power level – these
always cost 2 WP.
Requirements
To cast a spell, you must fulfill one or more requirements
which are specified in the description of each spell.
✦ Word: The spell is activated with a chant or
power word.
✦ Gesture: The spell is activated by making specific
hand movements.
✦ Focus: The spell is activated with an item held in your
hand, such as a wand, crystal ball, or amulet.
✦ Ingredient: The spell is activated using a certain
ingredient, which is consumed in the process.
Some spells have multiple requirements. You cannot cast a
spell unless all its requirements are fulfilled.
Casting Time
Unless otherwise stated, casting a spell always counts as an
action in combat. However, there are reaction spells which
are performed outside your own turn. Unlike other reac-
tions in combat, such as parrying and dodging, reaction
spells do not replace your regular action in the round. This
means that you can cast as many of them as you want, if
you have enough WP. There are also rituals, which take a
stretch of time or even a shift to perform.
CHAPTER 4 – MAGIC
23
Range
Each spell has a maximum range. Unlike ranged weapons,
spells cannot be used on targets outside their specified
range. Personal range means that the spell only affects the
person casting it.
Area of Effect: Some spells affect an entire area. That area
is called the area of effect. Unless stated otherwise, the area
of effect always starts at the mage casting the spell.
Area of effect spells can be dodged but not parried,
unless stated otherwise. You can exempt one or more
targets within the area from the spell’s effects, but you then
get a bane on the roll.
Sphere: If the range is described as sphere, the spell affects
all targets within the chosen area except the mage themself.
Cone: If the range is described as cone, the spell affects
all targets within a cone-shaped area whose width at any
given point equals the distance from the source of the spell.
The range indicates the length of the cone.
Duration
Each spell specifies the duration of its effect.
✦ Instant: The effect occurs instantly and has no last-
ing effect.
✦ Round: The effect lasts until your turn in the
next round.
✦ Stretch: The effect lasts for one stretch of time.
✦ Shift: The effect lasts until the end of the current shift.
✦ Concentration: The effect ceases if you perform
another action, take damage, or fail a WIL roll for
resisting fear. If you are interrupted by a sudden distur-
bance, such as a sound, you must make a WIL roll (not
an action) to maintain your concentration.
Failure, Dragons and Demons
If the roll for casting a spell fails, the spell has no effect,
but you still spend your WP. You are free to describe how
the failure manifests itself in the story, as long as it has no
mechanical effect.
Rolling a Dragon: Rolling a Dragon when you cast a spell
means that your target must roll a dragon to resist, parry,
or dodge the spell, and that you may choose one of the
following effects:
✦ The damage or range of the spell is doubled.
✦ The spell does not cost any WP.
✦ You can immediately cast another spell, but get a bane
on the roll.
Rolling a Demon: If you roll a Demon, you cannot push
the roll.
CHAPTER 4 – MAGIC
24
MAGIC TRICKS
Heat/Chill: The area within 10 meters of you becomes
pleasantly warm or cold. The effect protects against cold
(page 19) for one shift of time.
Ignite: You light or extinguish a candle, torch, or lantern
within 10 meters.
Puff of Smoke: An impressive puff of smoke erupts in
front of you. Very popular for dramatic entrances, and
can give you a boon to SNEAKING in certain situations as
determined by the GM.
SPELLS
GUST OF WIND
✦ Rank: 1
✦ Prerequisite: Elementalism
✦ Requirement: Word, gesture
✦ Casting Time: Action
✦ Range: 10 meters (cone)
✦ Duration: Instant
The spell summons a great gust of wind. All untethered
objects and creatures up to human size in the area of effect
are pushed 2D4 meter away from you and suffer the same
amount of bludgeoning damage. Against a swarm (like the
vampiric bats on page 30) the spell deals 2D6 damage.
Each additional power level increases the number of
dice by one.
FIREBALL
✦ Rank: 1
✦ Prerequisite: Elementalism
✦ Requirement: Word, gesture
✦ Casting Time: Action
✦ Range: 20 meters
✦ Duration: Instant
The spell sends a fireball from your hand or focus at the
target. The fireball can be dodged or parried as a ranged
attack. The fireball inflicts 2D6 damage on a hit and sets
fire to flammable objects. Each power level beyond the first
increases the damage by D6 or creates another fireball that
hits another target within range.
PILLAR
✦ Rank: 1
✦ Prerequisite: Elementalism
✦ Requirement: Word, gesture
✦ Casting Time: Action
✦ Range: 10 meters
✦ Duration: Shift
The spell raises a pillar, three meters high and one meter
wide, from the ground or a stone floor. If someone is
standing in that spot, the victim must make an ACRO-
BATICS roll (not an action) to avoid falling off the pillar.
If the pillar is created under a low ceiling and the roll fails,
the victim takes 2D6 bludgeoning damage instead. For
each additional power level, the height of the pillar
increases by three meters, which can mean
falling damage to anyone who falls off
(page 19).
RIDDERMOUND
eep in the vast forests of the Misty Vale lies
a burial mound called the Riddermound. It
is a feared place, haunted by the wight of a
powerful knight in the dragon emperor’s service – but
the barrow wight is also said to be watching over
hidden treasures.
This adventurer is designed to be a quick introduction
to Dragonbane and its rules. At the end of this PDF there
are five pre-generated player characters for the players to
choose from. The adventure is intended for three to five
players, plus the Gamemaster.
FOR THE GM’S EYES ONLY
The following pages are intended solely for the
Gamemaster, who should read the adventure
carefully before playing. We urge players to stop
reading here!
THE SITUATION
The player characters are adventurers who have come to
the Misty Vale in search of glory and riches. They have
heard rumors of an ancient and very valuable crown
buried inside the Riddermound and have walked here
during several days of hardship. When play starts, the
characters find themselves on point #1 on the map.
When the player characters arrive to the barrow, the
mound has already been opened by a goblin expedition
sent by the orc chieftain Maladûk. These grave robbers
have all been killed or routed – except for poor Grub in
room #5 – but not before provoking the wrath of the wight
and some of the lesser undead who inhabit this gloomy
realm of shadows.
The wight is still on the hunt for grave robbers. It
moves back and forth through the mound, slowly but
relentlessly – filled with anger over the goblins’ audacity.
The wight is described in detail under Tomb of the Dragon
Knight (room #9), but it can pass through closed portcul-
lises and doors and thereby show up anywhere.
Try to create a suspenseful atmosphere of being
hunted, like in a horror film, before the confrontation. Use
the wight to unsettle the player characters as they sneak
around in the dark. They can hear its heavy, dragging
footsteps, the rattling of chainmail, and the loud thuds of
its morningstar scraping the walls.
MAP & LOCATIONS
The map on page 29 shows all locations inside
the burial mound. You can draw the mound for
the players room for room on a whiteboard or a
sheet of paper. The map is also included at the
end of this PDF – you can print it out and cut
the rooms apart to show them to the players
one by one.
The descriptions of the rooms all follow the
same template. First comes a text in italics that
can be read aloud to the players as they enter
the room. This is followed by bullet points of
the most important things found in the room.
Bullet points written in italics are hidden at
first glance – to find them, the player charac-
ters must look in the right place and make a
SPOT HIDDEN roll. Searching a room takes a
stretch of time and can trigger a random event
(see next page).
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
26
RANDOM EVENTS
For every stretch of time the player characters spend
in a room, searching it or taking a stretch rest, you can
roll on the table below. The room descriptions indicate
ROLL EVENT
where random events can take place, and which die to
roll. You can also simply choose a suitable event.
1 Goblins Attack! Having been admonished by their orchish commanders, a patrol of goblins have returned to
the barrow to retrieve the treasure and (possibly) save their comrades left behind. They are two more than
the number of player characters and immediately attack, but flee if half of them are defeated. The goblins
have stats like Grub (page 31).
2 Massacred Goblin. The characters find the sad remains of a dead goblin. The body is severely mangled, but
a player character who makes a HEALING roll realizes that the goblin has not been dead very long.
3 Giant Spider. The player characters are attacked by a giant spider dwelling in a cavity behind one of the
walls. For stats, see page 28. This event can only occur once.
4 The Wight. The wight has been disturbed by the character, and it attacks. As it is partially immaterial, it can
pass through closed portcullises and doors, but it requires an action to do so. The wight retreats to its tomb
(#9) if it loses half of its HP, and fully recovers there in one stretch of time.
5 Restless Spirits. Translucent figures with twisted faces come floating from the shadows, assaulting the
player characters with shrieks and screams. The characters must roll against WIL to resist fear (page 18).
Once servants of the dragon knight’s household, the spirits are attracting their master the barrow wight,
who arrives after D3 rounds (see event #4 above).
6 Draconic Vision. A stray memory envelops one of the characters, who is suddenly looking out over a
strange city of turrets, towers, and horn-like spires. Something comes flying straight at the character –
a huge dragon ridden by a knight in golden plate mail and a horned great helm. The player character must
make a WIL roll with a bane to resist fear. The event can only occur once.
7+ Nothing happens.
LEAVING THE MOUND?
If the characters leave the mound to rest and heal out-
side it, roll a D6 for each shift of time:
1–3 Nothing happens.
4–5 A patrol of goblins, twice as many as the char-
acters and with stats like Grub (page 31),
arrive and immediately attack.
6 The wight appears by the characters’ camp
and attacks them, but disappears as soon as it
takes damage.
LOCATIONS
1. THE BURIAL MOUND
A hill crowned by tall standing stones rises in a glade in the
middle of the forest. The place is strangely quiet. However,
you notice a faint but ominous odor.
✦ Stone Slab: A roughly hewn, square-shaped slab of
stone, 2×2 meters in size, is embedded in the earth at
the top of the hill. It has been slightly moved from its
original position, and a small gap on one side reveals
some form of cavity underneath it. The stone slab is
heavy, but pushing it aside requires no die roll.
✦ Tracks and Droppings: Clear footprints can be seen
in the grass of the hill. A player character who succeeds
with a BUSHCRAFT roll also identifies small piles
of wolf droppings and goblin excrement. The odor is
coming from the latter.
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
27
GIANT SPIDER
Ferocity: 2 Size: Normal
Movement: 24 Armor: — HP: 36
MONSTER ATTACKS
D6 ATTACK
1 Mandibles! The spider’s serrated mandibles swish through the air like scimitars. The attack inflicts
2D8 slashing damage.
2 Tearing Attack! The famished spider lunges at the player characters, frantically attacking with its
multitude of hairy, barbed legs. All player characters within 2 meters suffer D8 piercing damage each.
3 Mesmerizing Eyes! The monstrous arachnid stares at the player characters with a terrifying multi-
tude of eyes. All victims within 10 meters must make a WIL roll to resist fear.
4 Poison Sting! The eight-legged horror raises its rear end and attacks a player character with a poison-
ous stinger that shoots out of its repulsive body. The attack inflicts D10 piercing damage, and a victim
who sustains at least 1 point of damage is also injected with a paralyzing poison with potency 16. The
attack can be parried.
5 Web Attack! The spider fixes its numerous eyes on the player character with the highest STR. The next
moment it spits sticky spider web at the victim, who must make an EVADE roll (not an action). On failure
the victim is caught in the web and unable to move. It takes a successful STR roll with a bane (action) to
break free. Other can help.
6 Ramming Attack! With a great leap, the giant spider launches its massive body at a player character.
The attack inflicts 2D6 bludgeoning damage and knocks the victim down.
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
28
RIDDERMOUND
9
4
4
8
6
5
7
4
4
1
3
2
2. SHAFT
An underground shaft opens beneath the stone slab.
No bottom can be seen. A musty smell of stale air and
dried-up corpses rises from the depths.
✦ Long Fall: It is five meters to the bottom of the shaft.
Each player character must make a ACROBATICS
roll to climb down. A rope gives a boon to the roll.
On a failure the player character falls as per the rules
on page 19.
✦ Vaulted Cave: If the player characters drop a torch
or similar light source into the shaft, they can see that
it leads down into a vaulted, earthen cave with some
form of doorway in the north wall
3. ANTECHAMBER
A dome-shaped chamber with a floor of beaten earth. In
the darkness far above, the opening to the surface looks
like a faintly glowing square. In the north wall is a set
of double oak doors with iron fittings. A silvery symbol
stretches across both doors, which are flanked by statues of
knights in antiquated armor.
✦ Forced Oak Door: The goblins have already forced
open the oak door, which is slightly ajar when the
player characters arrive.
✦ Stylized Crown: A successful MYTHS & LEGENDS
roll identifies the symbol on the door as a stylized
crown from the ancient time when the Misty Vale was
ruled by a mighty dragon-worshiping kingdom.
✦ Tracks In the Dirt: Lots of footprints and drag marks
can be seen in the dirt floor.
✦ Sleeping Bats: A cauldron of vampiric bats hangs
in clusters from the chamber’s ceiling. Detecting them
requires a passive AWARENESS roll, which in turn
makes it possible to SNEAK past them. If this fails, the
bats attack. For stats, see page 30.
✦ Goblin Poison Dagger: A player character who makes
a SPOT HIDDEN roll finds a curved goblin dagger in the
dirt. The blade is coated with lethal viper venom with
potency 9.
✦NORTH: Double doors leading to the mound
­ tunnels (#4).
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
29
VAMPIRIC BATS
Ferocity: 2 Size: Swarm
Movement: 24 Armor: — HP: 18
Resistance: The bats attack as a swarm and
therefore count as a single creature. All
damage from physical weapons, even mag-
ical ones, are reduced by half (rounded up).
Fire has normal effect.
MONSTER ATTACKS
D6 ATTACK
1–2 Swirling Horror! The bats swarm
around their victims at a frantic pace.
Everyone within 10 meters suffers a fear
attack.
3–4 Collective Attack! The bats launch a
joint assault on the player character
with the highest CON. The attack inflicts
2D6 slashing damage and the victim
suffers a fear attack, and the bat swarm
heals the same amount of HP from
drinking their victim’s blood.
5–6 Mass Attack! The bats split up to
attack all characters within 10 meters.
Each victim suffers D8 slashing damage
and the bat swarm heals the same
amount of HP from drinking their
­ victims’ blood.
4. MOUND TUnnELS
A dark, damp tunnel through packed earth that branches
off in different directions. The air is chilly and filled with
musty smells. Slithering roots, worms, and centipedes
are hanging like stalactites from the ceiling and make the
ground slippery.
✦ Random Event: Roll D12 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here.
✦NORTH: Opening to the guardhouse (#7).
✦ EAST: Damp earthen tunnel to the family crypt (#6).
✦ SOUTH: Double doors to the antechamber (#3).
✦ WEST: Damp earthen tunnel to the servants’ crypt (#5).
5. SERVANTS’ CRYPT
A dark and damp chamber. Dug-
out burial niches cover the walls
from floor to ceiling. Broken
skeletons, moldered rags, and
shards of crushed pottery can be seen
all over the place.
✦ Vandalized: The crypt has clearly been visited by
grave robbers. Skeletons have been dragged onto the
floor, jars have been crushed and clothes slashed.
✦ Locked Portcullis: A portcullis blocks the passage to
the Lady’s hall (#8). A broken key is stuck in the lock
and the portcullis is impossible to unlock. It has armor
rating 10 but can be forced by inflicting 30 points of
damage or casting a spell such as PILLAR, but such
noise will immediately attract the barrow wight.
✦ Hidden Goblin: Hiding behind the skeletal remains in one
of the burial niches closest to the floor is a hyperventilating
goblin named Grub. The player characters must search the
niches specifically or make a SPOT HIDDEN roll to discover
this last surviving member of Maladûk’s expedition.
✦ Random Event: Roll D12 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here.
✦NORTH: Damp earthen tunnel that turns east toward
the Lady’s hall (#8), blocked by a locked portcullis.
✦ SOUTH: Damp earthen tunnel that turns east toward
the mound tunnels (#4).
Grub’s Help: Poor Grub is scared out of his wits, and
his only aim is to get out of the mound alive. His first
impulse is to run, but if the player characters can
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
30
PERSUADE him to calm down, he is willing to help them.
Having observed the wights movements, he can inform
them that it moves unhindered through the mound but
seems unwilling to pass through the oak door leading
out to the antechamber (#3). Grub has also taken a rusty
iron ring with three large iron keys, two intact and one
broken, from the guardhouse (#7). The rest of the broken
key is stuck in the door in #5. The other two go to the
portcullises in #6 and #7. Only the lock in #6 can be
opened with the key.
✦ Treasures: If the player characters examine the
unopened sarcophagi, they will find four individu-
ally buried skeletons – several of them child-sized
– dressed in the moldered remnants of beautiful
ceremonial garments. They all wear gilded headbands
worth 5 gold coins each, as well as jeweled rings worth
3 gold apiece.
✦ Locked Portcullis: An iron portcullis blocks the pas-
sage to the Lady’s hall (#8). It can be opened with one
of the intact keys from Grub’s iron ring, but it requires
a successful SLEIGHT OF HAND roll – on failure the
key breaks. The portcullis has armor rating 10 and
can be forced open by inflicting 30 points of damage
or casting a spell such as PILLAR, but such noise will
immediately attract the wight.
✦ Trap: A trapdoor is hidden under a thin layer of earth
in front of the barred portcullis. Spotting it requires
searching the floor and making a SPOT HIDDEN roll. If
this does not happen, the first character to approach the
portcullis will fall through the trapdoor. The character
falls into a pit with sharp wooden stakes at the bottom
and takes 3D6 piercing damage. A successful EVADE roll
halves the damage (rounding up).
✦ Random Event: Roll D12 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here.
✦ noRTH: Damp earthen tunnel that turns west toward
the Lady’s hall (#8), blocked by an iron portcullis.
✦ SouTH: Damp earthen tunnel that turns west toward
the mound tunnels (#4).
GRUB
Grub the goblin is a pitiful sight: dirty, wild-
eyed, and panting hysterically. He wears
battered and broken leather armor and reeks
of fear and goblin bodily fluids.
Movement: 12 Damage Bonus: —
Armor: Leather (1) HP: 9
Skills: Awareness 10, Evade 12, Sneaking 14
Weapons: Short sword (skill level 12, damage
D10), shortbow (skill level 10, damage D10)
6. FAmiLY CRYPT
A dark chamber with a packed dirt floor. Seven simple
sarcophagi of stone are lined up along the walls. Several of
them are open, and two skeletons have been thrown onto
the ground.
✦ Vandalized: Three of the seven sarcophagi have been
opened and plundered by the goblins.
7. GUARDHouSE
A small room with a floor of beaten earth. The flickering
light of a torch streams through a black iron portcullis in
the far wall. Two mummified guards with rusted chain-
mail and long spears flank the barred gate.
✦ Rusted Portcullis: The barred door is completely
rusted out and impossible to open even with the
key from Grub in #5. It has armor rating 10 and can
be forced open by inflicting 30 points of damage or
casting a spell such as PILLAR, but such noise will
immediately attract the wight.
✦ Weapons and Armor: The mummified guards do
not come alive, even if the player characters take
their weapons and items. The rusty chainmail crum-
bles immediately if touched, but each guard has a
long spear.
✦ Random Event: Roll D12 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here.
✦ noRTH: Rusty portcullis blocks the passage to the
Lady’s hall (#8).
✦ SouTH: Opening to the mound tunnels (#4).
CHAPTER 5 – RiddERmound
31
THE LADY
The Lady is a translucent, faintly blue shimmering
phantom of a tall warrior maiden in full-length
chainmail and a gilded headband. Her face looks sad
and dignified, but when she attacks it contorts into a
terrifying death mask with empty eye sockets. The
Lady is a monster as per the rules on page 21.
Ferocity: 2 Size: Normal
Immunity: Ghosts are immaterial beings and
immune to all damage except magic and fire.
A defeated ghost is only banished for one shift,
after which it returns. The only way to banish the
ghost permanently is to solve whatever problem
keeps it bound to the world of the living.
Persuadable: Unlike other monsters, ghosts can
usually be PERSUADED, albeit with a bane on
the roll.
Movement: 12 Armor: — HP: 27
MONSTER ATTACKS
D6 ATTACK
1 Ghost Strike! The ghost lunges at a player character within 10 meters and strikes with great force. The
victim is knocked back 2D6 meters, suffers the same amount of bludgeoning damage, and lands prone.
2 Touch of Death! The ghost sticks its translucent hand into the chest of an unfortunate player char-
acter and grasps the victim’s heart. The victim suffers 2D10 points of damage and becomes Scared.
Armor has no effect.
3 Ghost Scream! The undead face contorts into a horrible grimace and lets out a scream that chills the
souls of all adventurers within 10 meters. All of them suffer a fear attack (page 18).
4 Death Stare! The ghost towers over a player character, staring directly into their soul with its dead
eyes. The victim sees their life pass before their eyes and is tormented by grotesque visions of all their
dead friends and foes. The victim becomes Scared, suffers a fear attack (page 18), and gets a bane
on their WIL roll.
5 Ghostly Embrace! The ghost emits an unnatural wheeze and suddenly appears right in front of an
adventurer within 10 meters, wrapping them in a deadly embrace to smother their spark of life. The
attack inflicts 3D6 bludgeoning damage and leaves the victim Dazed.
6 Cold Strike! The ghost grabs a victim and lets the icy chill of death stream into their body. The player
character suffers 2D8 damage and cannot heal HP or WP until they spend one shift in a warm location.
Armor has no effect.
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
32
8. THE LADY’S HALL
A small room with an oak table in the middle and burning
torches on the walls. A mummified woman in gilded chain-
mail is sitting at the far end of the table. An iron-fitted
oak door behind the mummy bears an ancient symbol in
glittering silver.
✦ The Lady: The mummified woman is the dragon
knight’s wife. She guards the entrance to her husband’s
final resting place and wakes as a ghost if the player
characters try to open the oak door to #9 or touch
the warhammer Fiendcrusher. She then demands that
they leave the burial mound in peace. She speaks in
an ancient tongue that can only be understood with a
successful LANGUAGES roll. If the player characters
persist in stealing the sword or opening the door, her
face contorts into a horrifying grimace before she
attacks. If the player characters refrain from doing so,
they may instead listen to the Lady’s rather incompre-
hensible speech. The words for “dragon” and “empire”
are mentioned repeatedly, as are the name Eledain,
something about the struggle between corruption and
the cleansing fire.
✦ The Fiendcrusher: The mummified woman’s claw-
like hands rest on a magnificent light warhammer set
with jewels (damage 2D6, durability 15). The warham-
mer is magical and glows red whenever the bearer is
within 10 meters of a demon.
✦ The Chainmail: The gilded chainmail is light and flexi-
ble (armor rating 4, gives bane to SNEAKING rolls).
✦ Stylized Crown: A player character who makes a
MYTHS & LEGENDS roll can see that the symbol on
the iron-fitted oak door is a stylized crown just like the
one in the antechamber (#3).
✦ Torches: The torches burn with magical fire which
automatically goes out if they are removed from the
burial mound.
✦ Random Event: Roll D6+3 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here (only
events #4–6 can occur).
✦NORTH: Iron-fitted oak door to the tomb of the dragon
knight (#9).
✦ EAST: Damp earthen tunnel to the family crypt (#6),
blocked by an iron portcullis.
✦ SOUTH: Iron portcullis to the guardhouse (#7).
✦ WEST: Damp earthen tunnel to the servants’ crypt (#5),
blocked by an iron portcullis.
9. TOMB OF THE DRAGON KNIGHT
In the middle of a burial chamber with torches on the
walls stands a podium with an ornate sarcophagus of
stone. The floor, ceiling, and walls are all made of stone
bricks. A painting of a ridden dragon can be seen on the
far wall.
✦ The Opened Sarcophagus: The stone coffin has
been opened from the inside with tremendous
force, and pieces of the shattered lid lie scattered on
the floor.
✦ Demon Crown: In the sarcophagus, the player
characters can find a gilded crown imbued with a
spell which halves all damage from attacks by demons
(rounding up). This effect is explained by the runes
on the crown, which can be read with a successful
LANGUAGES roll.
✦ Tomb Trap: A successful SPOT HIDDEN roll reveals
that the statuette part of the sarcophagus is connected
to a mechanism that indicates the existence of a trap.
And sure enough – if anyone removes the artifact
without carefully replacing it with an item of equal
weight (normal item), requiring a successful SLEIGHT
OF HAND roll, twenty blades shoot out from the
sarcophagus in all directions. Everyone within 2 meters
must succeed with a EVADE roll or take 2D6 pierc-
ing damage.
✦ The Wight: If the player characters have not already
defeated the wight, or it has risen again, it attacks
them here.
✦ Fresco: The dragon in the mural on the back wall has
a knight on its back, wearing the same exact gear and
horned helmet as the barrow wight.
✦ Inscription: Ancient runes are engraved on the wall
beside the fresco. A player character who makes a
LANGUAGES roll can make out something about “the
Emperor’s gift” and a “holy wrath” that will consume all
who dare touch said gift.
✦ Random Event: Roll D4+4 on the table on page 27
for each full stretch the characters spend here.
✦ SOUTH: Iron-fitted oak door to the Lady’s hall (#8).
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
33
THE WIGHT
The wight is a huge warrior in antiquated plate mail
and a horned great helm. The open visor reveals a
grim skeleton face with empty eye sockets. It moves
slowly and heavily through the mound to the awful
sound of ­ scraping metal.
The wight is protected by ancient draconic magic
inside the mound. It takes damage as per the rules,
but if defeated inside the gate in the antechamber
(#3), it will rise again in room #9 within one shift
(exactly when is up to you).
D6 ATTACK
The wight is a monster as per the rules on page
21. It wields a morningstar (damage 2D8).
Ferocity: 2 Size: Normal
Movement: 10 Armor: 8 HP: 38
Resistance: Takes half damage from non-magical
weapons, except fire which inflicts
normal damage.
MONSTER ATTACKS
1 Unholy Roar! The wight’s decomposed skull contorts and lets out a ghastly scream that cuts like a rusty
blade through the characters’ souls. Everyone within 10 meters suffers a fear attack (page 18).
2 Dreadful Gaze! An unlucky player character stares directly into the wight’s horrible eyes as a wheez-
ing sound is heard from the creature’s throat. The victim becomes Scared, suffers a fear attack, and
gets a bane on their WIL roll.
3 Hand of the Dead! The wight raises its hand and gestures at a player character within 10 meters,
who is thrown 2D4 meters away and lands prone. The attack inflicts the same amount of damage and
cannot be dodged.
4 Sweeping Attack! With surprising speed, the wight sweeps its weapon in a deadly attack. All player
characters within 2 meters suffer weapon damage. The attack can be parried.
5 Crippling Cold! The wight grabs an unfortunate player character who feels the chill of death spread
through their body. The victim takes D6 damage (armor has no effect) and must make an EVADE roll
(not an action) on their next turn in order to act at all. If the roll fails, a new attempt can be made on
the next turn. The victim also becomes cold (page 19) and cannot heal HP or WP until they get warm.
6 Power Attack! With creaking joints, the wight swings its weapon in a powerful attack against a char-
acter. The damage is rolled with twice the weapon’s normal number of dice, and the victim is knocked
to the ground. The attack can be parried.
CHAPTER 5 – RIDDERMOUnd
34
PLAYER
KIN
AGE
Human Old
PROFESSION
Mage – Elementalist
WEAKNESS
Fainthearted. You always stay
APPEARANCE
Tall and wiry. Long white beard and
bushy eyebrows. Inquisitive eyes.
at the back of the group.
N
A
M
E
A r c h m
n
a s t e r A o d h a
STR CON AGL INT WIL CHA
8 11 9 16 18 14
EXHAUSTED SICKLY DAZED ANGRY SCARED DISHEARTENED
DAMAGE BON. STR —
DAMAGE BON. AGL 8—
MOVEMENT
ABILITIES & SPELLS
SKILLS
INVENTORY
ENCUMBRANCE LIMIT
5
Adaptive
Fireball
Pillar
Gust of Wind
Heat/Chill
Puff of Smoke
Ignite
GOLD
SILVER
5
14
6
14
6
14
4
10
14
5
14
14
6
12
5
7
5
10
14
5
Acrobatics (AGL)
Awareness (INT)
Bartering (CHA)
Beast Lore (INT)
Bluffing (CHA)
Bushcraft (INT)
Crafting (STR)
Evade (AGL)
Healing (INT)
Hunting & Fishing (AGL)
Languages (INT)
Myths & Legends (INT)
Performance (CHA)
Persuasion (CHA)
Riding (AGL)
Seamanship (INT)
Sleight of Hand (AGL)
Sneaking (AGL)
Spot Hidden (INT)
Swimming (AGL)
WEAPON SKILLS
4
5
4
5
4
5
5
4
10
4
Axes (STR)
Bows (AGL)
Brawling (STR)
Crossbows (AGL)
Hammers (STR)
Knives (AGL)
Slings (AGL)
Spears (STR)
Staves (AGL)
Swords (STR)
SECONDARY SKILLS
14
Elementalism (INT)
1
2
Spellbook
Torch
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
MEMENTO
Worn diary full of
your experiences and
discoveries.
TINY ITEMS
Flint & Tinder
COPPER
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
7
ARMOR
BANE ON:
SNEAKING ACROBATICS
ROUND REST STRETCH REST
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
HELMET
BANE ON:
WILLPOWER POINTS
18
EVADE
AWARENESS
RANGED ATTACKS
WEAPON / SHIELD GRIP RANGE DAMAGE DURA-
BILITY
HIT POINTS
FEATURES
11
Staff
2h
2
D8 9 Bludgeoning
DEATH ROLLS SUCCESSES FAILURES
ARCHMASTER AODHAN
From an early age you have been fascinated with fire. Your sorcerous mother
brought you to a school of magicians after you accidentally burned down a barn
on the family farm. At school you learned the secrets of magic, but the thirst for
deeper knowledge made you restless. Now, after a few years of extensive travel,
you have joined a company of adventurers for an expedition to the Misty Vale.
ADAPTIVE
✦ Willpower Points: 3
When rolling for a skill, you can choose to
make the roll using another skill of your choice.
You must be able to justify how you use the
selected skill instead of the normal one. The GM has
the final word, but should be lenient.
MAGIC
✦ Willpower Points: Varies
As a wizard you can use magic. Read more about
magic on page 23 in the Quickstart PDF.
PLAYER
KIN
AGE
Elf Adult
PROFESSION
Hunter
WEAKNESS
Bigoted. Nightkin such as orcs and
APPEARANCE
Smooth and confident walk. Clear
eyes that suspiciously scrutinize
everyone. Eager and swift in
thought and action.
goblins are evil and need to be fought.
N
A
M
E
M
O r l a
o o n s i l v e r
STR CON AGL INT WIL CHA
13 15 17 13 10 9
EXHAUSTED SICKLY DAZED ANGRY SCARED DISHEARTENED
DAMAGE BON. STR D4
DAMAGE BON. AGL D6
MOVEMENT
ABILITIES & SPELLS
SKILLS
INVENTORY
14
ENCUMBRANCE LIMIT
7
Inner Peace
Twin Shot
GOLD
SILVER
14
12
5
6
5
12
6
14
6
14
6
6
5
5
7
6
7
14
6
14
Acrobatics (AGL)
Awareness (INT)
Bartering (CHA)
Beast Lore (INT)
Bluffing (CHA)
Bushcraft (INT)
Crafting (STR)
Evade (AGL)
Healing (INT)
Hunting & Fishing (AGL)
Languages (INT)
Myths & Legends (INT)
Performance (CHA)
Persuasion (CHA)
Riding (AGL)
Seamanship (INT)
Sleight of Hand (AGL)
Sneaking (AGL)
Spot Hidden (INT)
Swimming (AGL)
WEAPON SKILLS
6
14
6
7
6
14
7
6
7
12
Axes (STR)
Bows (AGL)
Brawling (STR)
Crossbows (AGL)
Hammers (STR)
Knives (AGL)
Slings (AGL)
Spears (STR)
Staves (AGL)
Swords (STR)
SECONDARY SKILLS
1
2
Quiver
Torch
3
Rope
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
MEMENTO
Fang from the troll that
slew your sister.
TINY ITEMS
Flint & Tinder
COPPER
4
ARMOR
O
R
R
A
M
R
A
1 Leather
T
I
N
G
BANE ON:
SNEAKING ROUND REST STRETCH REST
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
HELMET
BANE ON:
WILLPOWER POINTS
10
EVADE
AWARENESS
ACROBATICS
RANGED ATTACKS
WEAPON / SHIELD GRIP RANGE DAMAGE DURA-
BILITY
HIT POINTS
FEATURES
15
Longbow
2h
100 D12
Knife 1h 13 D8
6
3
Piercing
Subtle, Piercing
DEATH ROLLS SUCCESSES FAILURES
ORLA MOONSILVER
You grew up in the tropical forests of the south, always in search of adventure,
but also humbled by your family’s expectations of discipline and reflection.
After a troll attacked your village and killed many of your kinsmen, you
decided to find a new future for yourself. Still seeking your destiny, you have
concluded that journeying is your goal. Together with a group of fellow
adventurers you have traveled to the Misty Vale to see what it has to offer.
INNER PEACE
✦ Willpower Points: —
As an elf, you can meditate deeply during a stretch rest.
You heal an additional D6 HP and a D6 extra WP, and
can recover from an additional condition. You are com-
pletely unresponsive during your meditation and cannot
be awakened.
TWIN SHOT
✦ Willpower Points: 3
By activating this ability when attacking
with a bow, you shoot two arrows instead
of one. Roll just once to hit, with a bane.
Damage is rolled separately. The
arrows can be directed at the same
target or two different targets.
PLAYER
KIN
AGE
Mallard Adult
PROFESSION
Knight
WEAKNESS
Foolhardy. You always go first
into danger.
APPEARANCE
Strong, sturdy, and stubborn.
Waddling walk. Quick to anger
when provoked, especially if someone
insults your family or honor.
N
A
M
E
e r
M a k a n d
o f H a l f b a y
STR CON AGL INT WIL CHA
16 16 10 12 14 13
You seldom smile.
EXHAUSTED SICKLY DAZED ANGRY SCARED DISHEARTENED
DAMAGE BON. STR D4
DAMAGE BON. AGL 8—
MOVEMENT
ABILITIES & SPELLS
SKILLS
INVENTORY
ENCUMBRANCE LIMIT
8
Ill-tempered
Webbed Feet
Guardian
GOLD
SILVER
10
5
6
5
6
5
7
5
5
5
5
10
12
12
5
5
5
5
5
5
Acrobatics (AGL)
Awareness (INT)
Bartering (CHA)
Beast Lore (INT)
Bluffing (CHA)
Bushcraft (INT)
Crafting (STR)
Evade (AGL)
Healing (INT)
Hunting & Fishing (AGL)
Languages (INT)
Myths & Legends (INT)
Performance (CHA)
Persuasion (CHA)
Riding (AGL)
Seamanship (INT)
Sleight of Hand (AGL)
Sneaking (AGL)
Spot Hidden (INT)
Swimming (AGL)
WEAPON SKILLS
14
Axes (STR)
5
14
10
14
5
5
14
5
14
Bows (AGL)
Brawling (STR)
Crossbows (AGL)
Hammers (STR)
Knives (AGL)
Slings (AGL)
Spears (STR)
Staves (AGL)
Swords (STR)
SECONDARY SKILLS
1
Torch
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
MEMENTO
A fine pipe made of black
horn (a gift from your
father).
TINY ITEMS
Flint & Tinder
COPPER
10
ARMOR
O
R
R
A
M
T
I
R
A
6 Plate
N
G
BANE ON:
x
SNEAKING x
ROUND REST STRETCH REST
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
HELMET
BANE ON:
WILLPOWER POINTS
14
x
ACROBATICS
EVADE
AWARENESS
RANGED ATTACKS
WEAPON / SHIELD GRIP RANGE DAMAGE DURA-
BILITY
HIT POINTS
FEATURES
16
Battleaxe 1h
Short Sword 1h
Small Shield 1h
2
2
2
2D8 9 Slashing
D10 12 Slashing, Piercing
D8 15 Bludgeoning
DEATH ROLLS SUCCESSES FAILURES
MAKANDER OF HALFBAY
You are the youngest son of the Baron of Halfbay, who resides at his seat
of power many days’ travel to the east. Knowing that the title will pass to
your older (but lesser) brother, you searched your soul and decided to forge
your own path. You take great pride in your name and honor, and accept
missions that help the weak and punish the wicked. Now you have joined a
company of adventurers, drawn by rumors of treasure in the Misty Vale.
ILL-TEMPERED
✦ Willpower Points: 3
Mallards tend to have a choleric temper. You can acti-
vate this ability (no action) when making a skill roll and
get a boon to the roll. You also become Angry, if you’re
not already. This ability cannot be used for rolls against
INT or INT-based skills.
WEBBED FEET
✦ Willpower Points: —
As a mallard you also get a
boon to all SWIMMING
rolls. You always move at full
speed in or under water.
GUARDIAN
✦ Willpower Points: 2
You do not hesitate to take a hit to
protect your friends. If you and
another player character are both
within 2 meters of the same enemy
and the enemy tries to attack the
other character, you can activate this
ability to force the enemy to attack
you instead. Using this ability can be
done out of turn and it does not
count as an action.
PLAYER
KIN
AGE
Halfling Young
PROFESSION
Thief
WEAKNESS
Reckless. You always take big risks
APPEARANCE
Innocent face with shrewd,
constantly observing eyes. Light
and silent on your feet. You see
opportunity in any situation.
without thought of the consequences.
N
A
M
E
n
n
K r i s a
a t h e B o l d
STR CON AGL INT WIL CHA
8 13 18 14 15 10
EXHAUSTED SICKLY DAZED ANGRY SCARED DISHEARTENED
DAMAGE BON. STR D6—
DAMAGE BON. AGL MOVEMENT
ABILITIES & SPELLS
SKILLS
INVENTORY
12
ENCUMBRANCE LIMIT
4
Hard to Catch
Backstabbing
GOLD
SILVER
14
12
5
6
10
6
4
14
6
7
6
6
5
5
7
6
14
14
12
7
Acrobatics (AGL)
Awareness (INT)
Bartering (CHA)
Beast Lore (INT)
Bluffing (CHA)
Bushcraft (INT)
Crafting (STR)
Evade (AGL)
Healing (INT)
Hunting & Fishing (AGL)
Languages (INT)
Myths & Legends (INT)
Performance (CHA)
Persuasion (CHA)
Riding (AGL)
Seamanship (INT)
Sleight of Hand (AGL)
Sneaking (AGL)
Spot Hidden (INT)
Swimming (AGL)
WEAPON SKILLS
4
7
4
7
4
14
7
4
7
4
Axes (STR)
Bows (AGL)
Brawling (STR)
Crossbows (AGL)
Hammers (STR)
Knives (AGL)
Slings (AGL)
Spears (STR)
Staves (AGL)
Swords (STR)
SECONDARY SKILLS
1
2
Lockpicks
Torch
3
Rope
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
MEMENTO
A treasure map you
“found.”
TINY ITEMS
Flint & Tinder
COPPER
2
ARMOR
O
R
R
A
M
R
A
1 Leather
T
I
N
G
BANE ON:
SNEAKING ROUND REST STRETCH REST
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
HELMET
BANE ON:
WILLPOWER POINTS
15
EVADE
ACROBATICS
AWARENESS
RANGED ATTACKS
WEAPON / SHIELD GRIP RANGE DAMAGE DURA-
BILITY
HIT POINTS
FEATURES
13
Dagger 1h 8 D8 9 Subtle, Piercing, Slashing
Knife 1h 8 D8
Knife 1h 8 D8
6
6
Subtle, Piercing
Subtle, Piercing
DEATH ROLLS SUCCESSES FAILURES
KRISANNA THE BOLD
Growing up in a city in the west, you were always coming up with wild
ideas and daring your friends to take ever-greater risks in the alleys. You
became an adept pickpocket and later started burglarizing luxurious
mansions. You were caught and thrown in prison, but escaped shortly
thereafter. Now you keep clear of the city, always looking for new challenges
and experiences together with a party of adventurers. You are currently
on your way to the Misty Vale, which is said to offer plenty of both.
HARD TO CATCH
✦ Willpower Points: 3
You can activate this ability when dodging an attack,
getting a boon to the EVADE roll.
BACKSTABBING
✦ Willpower Points: 3
You can activate this ability when making
a melee attack against an enemy that is
also within 2 meters of another player
character. Your attack then counts as a
sneak attack, which means it cannot
be dodged or parried, you get a boon
to the roll, and the number of dice
rolled for the damage is increased
by one (i.e. 2D8 instead of D8).
This ability can only be used with
a subtle weapon. Activating
this ability does not count as
an action.
PLAYER
KIN
AGE
Wolfkin Young
PROFESSION
Fighter
WEAKNESS
Gluttonous. You take every chance
APPEARANCE
Scarred, bulging muscles. You look
loyally at friends, but menacingly
at foes. You take good care of
your clothes, and often wear
you get to eat something tasty.
N
A
M
E
n
n
B a s t o
B l o o d j a w
STR CON AGL INT WIL CHA
18 17 14 11 13 7
fragrant perfumes.
EXHAUSTED SICKLY DAZED ANGRY SCARED DISHEARTENED
DAMAGE BON. STR D6
DAMAGE BON. AGL D4
MOVEMENT
ABILITIES & SPELLS
SKILLS
INVENTORY
14
ENCUMBRANCE LIMIT
9
Hunting Instincts
Veteran
GOLD
SILVER
12
5
4
5
4
5
7
12
5
6
5
5
4
4
6
5
6
12
5
6
Acrobatics (AGL)
Awareness (INT)
Bartering (CHA)
Beast Lore (INT)
Bluffing (CHA)
Bushcraft (INT)
Crafting (STR)
Evade (AGL)
Healing (INT)
Hunting & Fishing (AGL)
Languages (INT)
Myths & Legends (INT)
Performance (CHA)
Persuasion (CHA)
Riding (AGL)
Seamanship (INT)
Sleight of Hand (AGL)
Sneaking (AGL)
Spot Hidden (INT)
Swimming (AGL)
WEAPON SKILLS
14
Axes (STR)
6
14
6
14
6
6
14
6
14
Bows (AGL)
Brawling (STR)
Crossbows (AGL)
Hammers (STR)
Knives (AGL)
Slings (AGL)
Spears (STR)
Staves (AGL)
Swords (STR)
SECONDARY SKILLS
1
Torch
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
MEMENTO
Blue bottle of perfume.
TINY ITEMS
Flint & Tinder
COPPER
2
ARMOR
O
R
R
A
M
R
A
2 Studded Leather
T
I
N
G
BANE ON:
x
SNEAKING ACROBATICS
EVADE
ROUND REST STRETCH REST
A
T
I
N
R
R
O
M
R
A
G
HELMET
BANE ON:
WILLPOWER POINTS
13
AWARENESS
RANGED ATTACKS
WEAPON / SHIELD GRIP RANGE DAMAGE DURA-
BILITY
HIT POINTS
FEATURES
17
Long Spear
2h
Short Spear 1h
4 2D8 9 Long, Piercing
36
D10 9 Piercing
DEATH ROLLS SUCCESSES FAILURES
BASTONN BLOODJAW
You have come from the northern wastelands in search of work, joy,
and the finer things in life. Tired of your people’s tribal feuds, you
dreamed of something bigger and traveled south. There you worked as
a mercenary, gladiator, caravan escort, and guardsman, before banding
together with a company of adventurers. You are now on your way to the
Misty Vale, enticed by rumors of demons, monsters, and mighty foes.
HUNTING INSTINCTS
✦ Willpower Points: 3
You can use this ability to
designate a creature in
sight, or a creature you
can catch the scent of,
as your prey. This counts
as an action in combat. You
can follow the scent of your prey
for a full day, and you can spend
1 ­ further WP (not an action) to gain a
boon for an attack against your prey.
VETERAN
✦ Willpower Points: 1
Activating this ability at the start of a
combat round allows you to retain your
initiative card from the previous round
instead of drawing a new one. Doing so
does not count as an action.
LEAD DESIGNER & EDITOR
Tomas Härenstam
OTHER WRITERS
Andreas Marklund (introductory text, monsters, Riddermound),
Krister Sundelin (magic),
Marco Behrmann (pre-generated characters)
LEAD ILLUSTRATOR
Johan Egerkrans
ADDITIONAL ART
Anton Vitus, Niklas Brandt
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Niklas Brandt, Christian Granath, Dan Algstrand
LAYOUT
Dan Algstrand
TRANSLATION
Niklas Lundmark
MAPS
Niklas Brandt
PROOFREADING
Brandon Bowling
RULES REVIEW
Jonas Ferry,
Marco Behrmann,
Nils Karlén,
Kosta Kostulas
DIGITAL PLATFORMS
Martin Takaichi
EVENT MANAGER
Anna Westerling
PR MANAGER
Boel Bermann
CUSTOMER SUPPORT
Daniel Lehto, Jenny Lehto
PLAYTESTERS
Marco Behrmann, Nils Karlén, Kosta Kostulas, Anna Westerling, Jonas Ferry, Fredrik Jarl, Kristoffer Sjöö,
Henric Löfqvist, Kalle Henricsson, Krister Sundelin, Andreas Ekeroot, Johan Osbjer, Niklas Fröjd,
Emma Fahlström, Olle Karlsson, Mattias Strandberg, Sara Engström, Maximilian Pukk Härenstam
SPECIAL THANKS TO
Roger Undhagen, Orvar Säfström, Fredrik Malmberg, Anders Blixt, Pelle Nilsson,
Kiku Pukk Härenstam, Stella Härenstam, Stephen Perrin, Chaosium Inc., and everyone
who contributed to this game by crowfunding it and giving feedback
Dragonbane is a registered trademark by Fria Ligan AB.
©2023 Fria Ligan AB
